# oreohive Source No-AI-Training License v0.1

The original publishers of this document, `the oreohive organisation`, permit
other parties to use this document, even without `the oreohive organisation`’s
explicit agreement or oversight. The use of this document by a party does not
mean that this party does reflects `the oreohive organisation` or its views,
beliefs or opinions in any way.

This license does NOT constitute legal advice, nor is it guaranteed to be
enforceable. If you require a license to properly lean on in court, please
consult a qualified lawyer. Using this license in your project, or distributing
a work under this license, does NOT constitute or form a lawyer-client
relationship or any other professional relationship with
`the oreohive organisation`. `the oreohive organisation` takes no responsibility
should this license leave loopholes or gaps, or does not provide satisfactory
protections. `the oreohive organisation`, its personnel, and any other
associated individuals, organisations, groups or parties, are not liable.

This licence may be used by any person or organisation (’Licensor’) to
distribute their `work`s under the terms below. By using, modifying or
redistributing a ‘Work’ under this licence, you agree to these terms.

---

Copyleft the oreohive organisation, @ oreohive.org, [present year]

---

# # 0. - Pre-amble

## Definitions

### License

- “License” means this oreohive Source No-AI-Training License v0.1.

### You / Licensee

- “You” or “Licensee” means any individual, organisation or party using,
  modifying, redistributing or otherwise engaging with a Work under this
  License. If you engage with, manipulate, transfer, save, copy (even from
  memory), store, (re)distribute or interact with any Work in any way beyond
  merely viewing it in passing, you are a Licensee. Your use of the Work in
  question is entirely subject to the freedoms and restrictions outlined by this
  License.

### Work

- “Work” refers to any material distributed under (or provided under) this
  License. Any material provided, published, hosted, served, created or
  (re)distributed under this License is a Work. Any data or information may
  qualify as a Work; this may be a image of any kind (for example, a photograph
  or digital drawing), a video or animation of any nature, a piece of code or
  text document, or any other such material. The standard noun “work” (without
  an initial capital letter) may be used to refer to any material that is not
  necessarily licensed or distributed under this License.

### Derivative

- “Derivative” refers to the resulting product of any modification of a Work. If
  a Work is modified, and this results in a new or altered version, this new or
  altered version is a Derivative. A Derivative may be based upon a Work
  directly, or recognisably inspired by a Work.

### Identifying Biological Information

- ‘Identifying Biological Information’ means any:
  - vocals, vocal samples or voiceovers
  - voices, digitisations, computerisations, synthesisations or computerised
    recreations or re-enactments of organic (e.g. human) voices
  - facial images, facial data (including geometry) e.g. anything enabling of
    facial recognition
  - fingerprints
  - DNA sequences, or pieces of information enabling their precise extraction or
    reverse-engineering
  - pictures, videos or scans of human genitalia
  - any biometric or personally-identifying biological information (or data
    precisely representing such information)
  For example, the following fall into the category of ‘Identifying Biological
  Information’:
  - A somewhat clear image of one’s face, of a resolution providing
    recognisability
  - An individual’s facial geometry, in any format
  - (A recording of) someone singing in a song, clear enough to facilitate
    recognition of them
  - A picture of one’s passport (for this features a clear picture of one’s
    face)
  The following would not fall into the category of ‘Identifying Biological
  Information’:
  - One’s blood type, written in text
  - The name of a rare medical condition someone may possess
  - A recording of someone tapping their knees, that does not feature their face
    or anything identifiable
  - A picture of an individual with a majority of their face irrecoverably
    censored or obstructed

# # 1. - Grant of Rights

1.1. - You are hereby granted a worldwide, royalty-free, non-exclusive license
to use, reproduce, modify, distribute and publicly display the Work, subject to
the terms in this document.

1.2. - No Work published under this License may have any additional clauses that
affect or impede the freedoms defined by this License for any Licensee.
Additionally, no Work published under this License may come with any additional
clauses that allow for freedoms not allowed explicitly by this License. If this
License is supplemented with a choice-of-law clause, this clause may be removed
by any Licensee.

1.3 - By copying, modifying, distributing, or otherwise using any Work, the
Licencee agrees to be bound by the terms of this Licence.

# # 2. - No AI/ML Training

2.1. - You strictly must NOT include, incorporate, integrate, upload or
otherwise use the Work (or any Derivatives) in any dataset, model or process for
training, improving, diagnosing, fine-tuning, evaluating or iterating upon
artificial intelligence (’AI’) models or machine learning (’ML’) algorithms of
ANY kind or nature, without obtaining explicit, written and formal permission
from the Licensor.

# # 3. - Restrictions on the Sharing of Works featuring Identifying Biological Information

3.1. - Any Work or Derivative containing Identifying Biological Information may
not be redistributed, saved, stored, processsed or made available, modified or
unmodified, unless you have explicit, prior, written and formalised permission
from the original Licensor.

3.2. - The carrier, subject or person of origin of any Identifying Biological
Information held within a Work or Derivative reserves the right to, at any
point, restrict or prevent the (re)distribution, processing or sharing of this
Work or Derivative.

3.2. - The carrier, subject or person of origin of any Identifying Biological
Information held within a Work or Derivative reserves the right for this
Identifying Biological Information to be cleared, removed or deleted from
systems in a manner such that they are reasonably unrecoverable. This does not
need to constitute the clearance, removal or deletion of the entire Work or
Derivative.

3.3. - At no point may a Work or Derivative be published or processed if the
carrier, subject or person of origin of any Identifying Biological Information
featured within the Work or Derivative in any way or encoding.

# # 4. - Share-Alike for Derivatives

4.1. - A ‘copyleft’ or ‘share-alike’ license is a license that permits one to
freely use, study, modify and redistribute the work being licensed, so long as,
if any copies (modified or otherwise) or derivative works are distributed, these
are distributed under the same license, to enable the same freedoms for the new
copy. These freedoms may then not be infringed upon.

4.2. - Any Derivative of a Work, if distributed or transmitted in ANY form, must
be licensed under one of the following licenses:

- this License.
- a later vesion of this License, as published by the oreohive organisation (or
  a party directly, explicitly, officially, formally and authentically
  authorised by the oreohive organisation).
- a ‘copyleft’ or ‘share-alike’ license, as defined above.
- a license approved by the Open Source Initiative as an open source license.

  4.3. - A Derivative of a Work does not necessarily need to be licensed under a
  license that upholds exactly the same specific restrictions as this License.
  For example, this License holds specific restrictions on AI/ML training or the
  transmission of Identifying Biological Information, which do not need to be
  reflected in the license applied to a Derivative. However, a Derivative may
  not be created for the sole purpose of redistributing a Work under a different
  license, and must contain multiple notable changes of significance that affect
  or alter the user experience in some form.

  4.4. - If the Work is some computer code, a piece of software (in source code
  form, or in a binary or compiled form), computer program or some other form of
  instructions for a computer or computer system, it MUST be redistributed, if
  redistributed, under this License, or a license approved by the Open Source
  Initiative as an open source license; the license used MUST necessitate that
  any source code of any computer program or computer software licensed is
  freely accessible to any user or Licensee.

# # 5. - Attributions for Derivatives

5.1. - Any Derivative of a Work must feature a clear, explicit attributional
statement highlighting who was responsible for the original Work. No Derivative
of any Work may be distributed or provided under a license that does not enforce
that these attributions may be present. For example, the Creative Commons
Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International (CC BY-SA 4.0) license enforces that
these attributions must be provided alongside or on any derivative work, and the
GNU General Public License (GNU GPL-3.0) license enforces similarly that these
attributional statements are to be provided in the distribution or provision of
any derivative work.

# # 6. - Versioning

6.1. - If the version of this License applied (e.g. “v0.1”) is stated with a “+”
(e.g. “v0.1+”), the Work may be utilised and received under the version of the
License explicitly stated (e.g. “v0.1”) or any later version as published by the
oreohive organisation (or a party directly, explicitly, officially, formally and
authentically authorised by the oreohive organisation).

6.2. - If any version number is not provided, or is omitted, the latest
published version of this License (by the oreohive organisation, or a party
directly, explicitly, officially, formally and authentically authorised by the
oreohive organisation) at any given time of receipt is to apply.

# # 7. - Disclaimer & Liability

7.1. - This work is provided “as-is”, WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY of ANY KIND, as
permitted by applicable law. The Licensor is not liable for any damages
perceived to have resulted from its use or manipulation.

7.2 - The Licencee agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Licensor from any
liability, loss or expense arising from the Licencee’s use of a Work, in
violation of this Licence. or otherwise To the extent permitted by applicable
law, the Licensor shall hold no responsibility or liability.

# # 8. - No Waiver; Severability

8.1 - No perceived failure or delay of the Licensor in exercising any right,
warrant or remedy under this Licence shall constitute (or be rendered) a waiver
of that right. If any provision or clause of this Licence is held or deemed
invalid or unenforceable, the remaining provisions or clauses shall continue in
full force and effect.
